# [The Art of Defensive Programming](https://medium.com/web-engineering-vox/the-art-of-defensive-programming-6789a9743ed4)

My dad loves to talk about driving. Especially when I'm the one at the wheel. His classic go to subject is Defensive Driving and the classes he took to master it. The term Defensive programming triggered these memories, but I didn't expect it to be mentioned in the actual article. The premise behind Defensive Driving, and Defensive Programming, essentially comes down to this: never trust anyone. While I'm definitely exaggerating, the article wants you to be wary. While developing a product, one needs to not only be careful with one's own code, but also the code of others. Anyone can make mistakes anywhere, so in software development all developers need to take caution in implementing their own code, and using the code of others. I think that this concept seems a bit misanthropic, but in its own way it encourages peer review. Continually checking and testing the work of your peers helps the overall security of a project, because different people will be able to identify different weaknesses in the code more easily than others. Teams working on the same project should have a strict coding style and rigorous testing, this leads to readability, less confusion, and easier debugging. 

When the semester began, I was in the midst of the classic schedule dance. Everything was tentative, and I was struggling to settle. I was initially enrolled in security. The first class was incredibly interesting, but I proceeded to drop it for software engineering. During that one lecture, the professor told us that a long time ago, at Google, they were considering phasing out their security team, as they believed all developers should know or learn enough security to cover their bases. Although this never went into effect, hearing this brought me to attention, because when I was discussing my schedule with friends the previous fall, I was advised not to take security as most companies will have developers specifically hired for security. This article stresses the need for all developers to write secure code, in fact most of the article is dedicated to pratices that all coders should follow to write secure code, whether that mean bug free, or exploit free. Another interesting idea he brings up is not reinventing the wheel. I have often heard that good programmers know when to write, and when to rewrite. As a student, interpreting code is essential to learning how it works, and what better way to learn how it works than to code it personally? But for things like cryptography, hashing, and security in general, who would trust the algorithms of an ambituous coder over a tried and true product? What if there are exploits in a product whose purpose is security? 

-Ryan

## Comments:
### Olina Stathopoulou
> I found the title of the article intriguing because I had never heard of the term Defensive Programming (or Defensive Driving which Ryan went into *detail* about). I also appreciated the bits of code examples at the end under the Dos and Don'ts. A lot of the time, I read articles about good coding practices that stick to theory without showing solid examples, and while the snippets were in a language I don't know (PHP), I was still able to understand the writer's intention through the code and the explanations of it.